# Why Infrastructure as Code (IaC)?

Before the advent of IaC:

- **Manual Server Configuration** – Infrastructure was configured manually.
- **No Version Control** – Changes were difficult to track and audit.
- **Documentation-Driven Processes** – Relied heavily on manual documentation.
- **Limited Automation** – Increased operational effort and human error.
- **Slow Provisioning** – Infrastructure deployment was time-consuming.

## key terminology and concept

- ### Provider: 
A provider is a plugin for Terraform that defines and manages resources for a specific cloud or infrastructure platform. Examples of providers include AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, and many others. You configure providers in your Terraform code to interact with the desired infrastructure platform.

**Different Ways to Configure Providers in Terraform**
#### In the Root Module
This is the most common way to configure providers. The provider configuration block is placed in the root module of the Terraform configuration. This makes the provider configuration available to all the resources in the configuration.

 ```hcl
provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
}
```
Eg. azurerm - for Azure

#### In a child module
You can also configure providers in a child module. This is useful if you want to reuse the same provider configuration in multiple resources.
```hcl
module "aws_vpc" {
  source = "./aws_vpc"
  providers = {
    aws = aws.us-west-2
  }
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  depends_on = [module.aws_vpc]
}
```
#### In the required_providers block
You can also configure providers in the required_providers block. This is useful if you want to make sure that a specific provider version is used.
```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 3.79"
    }
  }
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
}
```
The best way to configure providers depends on your specific needs. If you are only using a single provider, then configuring it in the root module is the simplest option. If you are using multiple providers, or if you want to reuse the same provider configuration in multiple resources, then configuring it in a child module is a good option. And if you want to make sure that a specific provider version is used, then configuring it in the required_providers block is the best option.

- **Resource**: A resource is a specific infrastructure component that you want to create and manage using Terraform. Resources can include virtual machines, databases, storage buckets, network components, and more. Each resource has a type and configuration parameters that you define in your Terraform code.

- **Module**: A module is a reusable and encapsulated unit of Terraform code. Modules allow you to package infrastructure configurations, making it easier to maintain, share, and reuse them across different parts of your infrastructure. Modules can be your own creations or come from the Terraform Registry, which hosts community-contributed modules.

- **Configuration File**: Terraform uses configuration files (often with a .tf extension) to define the desired infrastructure state. These files specify providers, resources, variables, and other settings. The primary configuration file is usually named main.tf, but you can use multiple configuration files as well.

- **Variable**: Variables in Terraform are placeholders for values that can be passed into your configurations. They make your code more flexible and reusable by allowing you to define values outside of your code and pass them in when you apply the Terraform configuration.

- **Output**: Outputs are values generated by Terraform after the infrastructure has been created or updated. Outputs are typically used to display information or provide values to other parts of your infrastructure stack.

- **State File**: Terraform maintains a state file (often named terraform.tfstate) that keeps track of the current state of your infrastructure. This file is crucial for Terraform to understand what resources have been created and what changes need to be made during updates.

- **Plan**: A Terraform plan is a preview of changes that Terraform will make to your infrastructure. When you run terraform plan, Terraform analyzes your configuration and current state, then generates a plan detailing what actions it will take during the apply step.

- **Apply**: The terraform apply command is used to execute the changes specified in the plan. It creates, updates, or destroys resources based on the Terraform configuration.

- **Workspace**: Workspaces in Terraform are a way to manage multiple environments (e.g., development, staging, production) with separate configurations and state files. Workspaces help keep infrastructure configurations isolated and organized.

- **Remote Backend**: A remote backend is a storage location for your Terraform state files that is not stored locally. Popular choices for remote backends include Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, or HashiCorp Terraform Cloud. Remote backends enhance collaboration and provide better security and reliability for your state files.

### Multiple Region Implementation in Terraform
You can make use of alias keyword to implement multi region infrastructure setup in terraform
```hcl
provider "aws" {
  alias = "us-east-1"
  region = "us-east-1"
}

provider "aws" {
  alias = "us-west-2"
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  provider = "aws.us-east-1"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example2" {
  ami = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  provider = "aws.us-west-2"
}
```
